---
title: "CSCI-2312: Object Oriented Programming"
collection: teaching
type: "Undergraduate course"
permalink: /teaching/2017-fall-OOP-2312
venue: "PLAZA-112"
date: 2017-08-21
location: "University of Colorado Denver"
---

Programming topics in the C++ language. The emphasis is on problem solving using object oriented and Generic Programming. Topics include advanced I/O, classes, inheritance, polymorphism and virtual functions, abstract base classes, exception handling, templates, and the Standard Template Library.  


Course objectives
======
By the end of the course you are expected to gain the following skills:

1. Ability to apply object oriented modeling and programming in software development
2. Ability to apply generic programming in software development
3. Ability to apply error handling techniques such as exception handling
4. Ability to use C++ language for all of the above


Prerequisites
======
1. ENGL 1020 : Core composition I with grade of C- or higher, 
2. CSCI 1410 : Fundamentals of Computing with grade of C- or higher, 
3. CSCI 1411 : Fundamentals of Computing lab with grade of C- or higher. 

Topics covered
======
1. Introductions; Review: C++ basics, Control Flow, Procedural Abstraction - functions
2. Review: Parameters, overloading, references, arrays
3. Structures and Classes
4. Constructors
5. Operator Overloading
6. Friend Functions and  Automatic Type conversion
7. Software Architecture/Design; Patterns; UML Overview
8. Inheritance
9. Polymorphism
10. Exception handling
11. Pointers
12. Mock Industry Interview session
13. Linked Lists
14. Copy Constructors and deconstructors
15. Templates and inheritance
16. Debugging and troubleshooting
17. Debugging and troubleshooting
18. Binary File I/O
19. JAVA Swing / Python
20. Putting it all Together - The bigger picture
